In this assignment, you will be required to implement the Decision Tree algorithm from scratch
using both (a) Information Gain and (b) Gini Index, to decide on the splitting attribute.
you will implement it on a small toy dataset to gain confidence in your implementation.
you will be asked to compare the accuracy of your implemented model with that of ​sci-kit learn​ .

Consider that you are willing to buy a car and you have collected information
having four attributes ‘price’, ‘maintenance’, ‘capacity’ and ‘airbag’, and are trying to predict
whether a given car is ‘profitable’ or not. Assume all the four attributes are categorical, with
discrete values.

(Dataset)​
Download the training and test data ​here​ . The sheet labelled “training data” contains
the data to be trained on. The sheet named as “test data” contains the data on which you have
to test your model.

(Tasks)
(A)​ Train your decision tree classifier on the train-data (where you will use “profitable”), using
the impurity measure:
a. Information Gain
b. Gini Index

Test your model on test-data (where the “profitable” label is unseen).
After prediction, report the individual accuracies on the test data obtained using (a) and (b).
Note that the “profitable” field should not be used in the classification process.

For both cases, write your program such that it prints out the decision tree, in a particular format.

For example, assume that your decision tree looks like the following - the attribute “price” is the
root node and “maintenance” is the 2nd level node and “capacity” is the third level node (under
maintenance = low). “yes” and “no” specifies the final value of “profitable”. Then the program
should print out the decision tree as follows:
price = low
| maintenance = low
| capacity = 4 : yes
| maintenance = high : no

Where subsequent levels are at increasing indentations from the left.


(B) ​ Repeat the experiment using the decision tree algorithm implemented in ​ scikit learn​ , using
both Information Gain and Gini index. Report the accuracies on test data.

(Deliverables)​ Your report should contain :
1. The decision tree
2. The value of Information Gain and Gini Index of the root node using :
a. Your model
b. scikit learn
3. The labels generated on the test data and accuracy on the test data using :
a. Your model
b. scikit learn

